docs/sources/auth/github.md, before:

+++
title = "GitHub OAuth2 Authentication"
description = "Grafana OAuthentication Guide "
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "oauth"]
weight = 800
+++

# GitHub OAuth2 Authentication

To enable the GitHub OAuth2 you must register your application with GitHub. GitHub will generate a client ID and secret key for you to use.

## Configure GitHub OAuth application

You need to create a GitHub OAuth application (you  will find this under the GitHub
settings page). When you create the application you will need to specify
a callback URL. Specify this as callback:

```bash
http://<my_grafana_server_name_or_ip>:<grafana_server_port>/login/github
```

This callback URL must match the full HTTP address that you use in your
browser to access Grafana, but with the suffix path of `/login/github`.
When the GitHub OAuth application is created you will get a Client ID and a
Client Secret. Specify these in the Grafana configuration file. For
example:

## Enable GitHub in Grafana

```bash
[auth.github]
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes = user:email,read:org
auth_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token
api_url = https://api.github.com/user
team_ids =
allowed_organizations =
```

You may have to set the `root_url` option of `[server]` for the callback URL to be
correct. For example in case you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

Restart the Grafana back-end. You should now see a GitHub login button
on the login page. You can now login or sign up with your GitHub
accounts.

You may allow users to sign-up via GitHub authentication by setting the
`allow_sign_up` option to `true`. When this option is set to `true`, any
user successfully authenticating via GitHub authentication will be
automatically signed up.

### team_ids

Require an active team membership for at least one of the given teams on
GitHub. If the authenticated user isn't a member of at least one of the
teams they will not be able to register or authenticate with your
Grafana instance. For example:

```bash
[auth.github]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes = user:email,read:org
team_ids = 150,300
auth_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token
api_url = https://api.github.com/user
allow_sign_up = true
```

### allowed_organizations

Require an active organization membership for at least one of the given
organizations on GitHub. If the authenticated user isn't a member of at least
one of the organizations they will not be able to register or authenticate with
your Grafana instance. For example

```bash
[auth.github]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes = user:email,read:org
auth_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token
api_url = https://api.github.com/user
allow_sign_up = true
# space-delimited organization names
allowed_organizations = github google
```

### Team Sync (Enterprise only)

>  Only available in Grafana Enterprise v6.3+

With Team Sync you can map your GitHub org teams to teams in Grafana so that your users will automatically be added to
the correct teams.

Your GitHub teams can be referenced in two ways:

- `https://github.com/orgs/<org>/teams/<slug>`
- `@<org>/<slug>`

Example: `@grafana/developers`

[Learn more about Team Sync]({{< relref "team-sync.md" >}})

Commit message:

initial v7.3.1 commit
forked from
https://github.com/logzio/gaia-hermes-ws/commit/7b43cdfa14b35ca5e84d57ca298325ab6f64899a
(hermes commit before grafana 8.0.3 upgrade)

docs/sources/auth/github.md, after:

+++
title = "GitHub OAuth2 Authentication"
description = "Grafana OAuthentication Guide "
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "oauth"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "GitHub"
identifier = "github_oauth2"
parent = "authentication"
weight = 800
+++

# GitHub OAuth2 Authentication

To enable the GitHub OAuth2 you must register your application with GitHub. GitHub will generate a client ID and secret key for you to use.

## Configure GitHub OAuth application

You need to create a GitHub OAuth application (you  will find this under the GitHub
settings page). When you create the application you will need to specify
a callback URL. Specify this as callback:

```bash
http://<my_grafana_server_name_or_ip>:<grafana_server_port>/login/github
```

This callback URL must match the full HTTP address that you use in your
browser to access Grafana, but with the suffix path of `/login/github`.
When the GitHub OAuth application is created you will get a Client ID and a
Client Secret. Specify these in the Grafana configuration file. For
example:

## Enable GitHub in Grafana

```bash
[auth.github]
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes = user:email,read:org
auth_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token
api_url = https://api.github.com/user
team_ids =
allowed_organizations =
```

You may have to set the `root_url` option of `[server]` for the callback URL to be 
correct. For example in case you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

Restart the Grafana back-end. You should now see a GitHub login button
on the login page. You can now login or sign up with your GitHub
accounts.

You may allow users to sign-up via GitHub authentication by setting the
`allow_sign_up` option to `true`. When this option is set to `true`, any
user successfully authenticating via GitHub authentication will be
automatically signed up.

### team_ids

Require an active team membership for at least one of the given teams on
GitHub. If the authenticated user isn't a member of at least one of the
teams they will not be able to register or authenticate with your
Grafana instance. For example:

```bash
[auth.github]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes = user:email,read:org
team_ids = 150,300
auth_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token
api_url = https://api.github.com/user
allow_sign_up = true
```

### allowed_organizations

Require an active organization membership for at least one of the given
organizations on GitHub. If the authenticated user isn't a member of at least
one of the organizations they will not be able to register or authenticate with
your Grafana instance. For example

```bash
[auth.github]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes = user:email,read:org
auth_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize
token_url = https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token
api_url = https://api.github.com/user
allow_sign_up = true
# space-delimited organization names
allowed_organizations = github google
```

### Team Sync (Enterprise only)

>  Only available in Grafana Enterprise v6.3+

With Team Sync you can map your GitHub org teams to teams in Grafana so that your users will automatically be added to
the correct teams. 

Your GitHub teams can be referenced in two ways:

- `https://github.com/orgs/<org>/teams/<slug>`
- `@<org>/<slug>`

Example: `@grafana/developers`

[Learn more about Team Sync]({{< relref "team-sync.md" >}})
